A leader leads by example not by force.
A military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective.
A skilled commander seeks victory from the situation and does not demand it of his subordinates.
All men can see these tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.
All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when we are able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must appear inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.
And therefore those skilled in war bring the enemy to the field of battle and are not brought there by him.
Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.
Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across.
Engage people with what they expect; it is what they are able to discern and confirms their projections. It settles them into predictable patterns of response, occupying their minds while you wait for the extraordinary moment — that which they cannot anticipate.
Even the finest sword plunged into salt water will eventually rust.
For to win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.
He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot will be victorious.
If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight.
If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground. All we need to do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way.
If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders ARE clear, and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their officers.
If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
If you wait by the river long enough, the bodies of your enemies will float by.
If your enemy is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him. If your opponent is temperamental, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them. If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected .
If your opponent is of choleric temperament, seek to irritate him.
In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity.
It is essential to seek out enemy agents who have come to conduct espionage against you and to bribe them to serve you. Give them instructions and care for them. Thus doubled agents are recruited and used.
It is said that if you know your enemies and know yourself, you will not be imperilled in a hundred battles; if you do not know your enemies but do know yourself, you will win one and lose one; if you do not know your enemies nor yourself, you will be imperilled in every single battle.
Know yourself and you will win all battles.
Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.
Management of many is the same as management of few. It is a matter of organization.
Move swift as the Wind and closely-formed as the Wood. Attack like the Fire and be still as the Mountain.
Now the reason the enlightened prince and the wise general conquer the enemy whenever they move and their achievements surpass those of ordinary men is foreknowledge.
One defends when his strength is inadequate, he attacks when it is abundant.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance.
Secret operations are essential in war; upon them the army relies to make its every move.
So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak.
Speed is the essence of war. Take advantage of the enemy's unpreparedness; travel by unexpected routes and strike him where he has taken no precautions.
Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without strategy is the noise before defeat.
Subtle and insubstantial, the expert leaves no trace; divinely mysterious, he is inaudible. Thus he is master of his enemy's fate.
Supreme excellence consists of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
Swift as the wind. Quiet as the forest. Conquer like the fire. Steady as the mountain
The art of war is of vital importance to the State. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.
The best victory is when the opponent surrenders of its own accord before there are any actual hostilities... It is best to win without fighting.
The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom.
The general who wins the battle makes many calculations in his temple before the battle is fought. The general who loses makes but few calculations beforehand.
The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.
The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.
The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.
The ultimate in disposing one's troops is to be without ascertainable shape. Then the most penetrating spies cannot pry in nor can the wise lay plans against you.
There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard.
There is no instance of a nation benefiting from prolonged warfare.
Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory:
Thus, what is of supreme importance in war is to attack the enemy's strategy.
To a surrounded enemy, you must leave a way of escape.
To know your Enemy, you must become your Enemy.
To win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.
Too frequent rewards indicate that the general is at the end of his resources; too frequent punishments that he is in acute distress.
Treat your men as you would your own beloved sons. And they will follow you into the deepest valley.
Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win
What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.
When able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near
When strong, avoid them. If of high morale, depress them. Seem humble to fill them with conceit. If at ease, exhaust them. If united, separate them. Attack their weaknesses. Emerge to their surprise.
When the enemy is at ease, be able to weary him; when well fed, to starve him; when at rest, to make him move. Appear at places to which he must hasten; move swiftly where he does not expect you.
When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil. When full, starve them. When settled, make them move.
When torrential water tosses boulders, it is because of its momentum. When the strike of a hawk breaks the body of its prey, it is because of timing.
When you surround an army, leave an outlet free. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.
Who wishes to fight must first count the cost.
You have to believe in yourself.